[Music]
do
so
[Music]
[Applause]
we are not a perfect country but we're a
lot closer than a lot of other countries
to being perfect
here's how you persuade first part of
this football field called persuasion is
to identify
or develop what rapport you gotta
develop report the next piece
is called attack and confess attack and
confess
it goes back to what i was saying about
trying to get down to the truth
as to different perspectives
were held on both sides in history
and we and you as reporters need to do
your jobs to get down and research as
much as you can
to find out what the truth was in those
situations
and and that's part of my job what do
you believe the truth was like this is
these are softball questions
yeah what do you believe the truth is
sir yeah you're the new minister
what do you think the truth is
to assimilate indigenous people into
the non-indigenous culture and was that
an attempt to destroy their culture
part of the persuasive process you must
attack and confess
well at the time i think the the intent
was there to
that they thought they were doing the
right thing in retrospect it's easy to
judge
in the past but at the time
the they really thought that they were
doing the the right thing
i'm saddened by the fact that it took so
long
for individuals to recognize that
process wasn't working and it wasn't the
right thing to do
were they trying to destroy the lives of
indigenous peoples and their communities
and their financial culture
even if they thought it was the right
thing they thought they were doing the
right thing do you think they were
trying to destroy
and explain the culture of the language
of indigenous people
so i have to put somebody in yes state
that's persuasion put them in the estate
put them in a behavior an internal
feeling where they want to say yes
and then ask them to do something you
want to do and they'll respond that way
from
my knowledge of it
the residential school system
was designed to take indigenous children
and give them the skills and abilities
they would need
to fit into uh society as it moved
forward so
i think that was the policy do you think
that was the intention
of government to do that
i am an honorary witness for the truth
and reconciliation commission
i listen to the stories of the survivors
yes i cannot accept you
saying what you just said about
residential schools
it was the express intent
of residential schools to kill the
indian
in the child it is not cultural
relativism
it is not revisionist history
for us to say that that was wrong any
right-minded person
at the time should have known that it
was wrong
attack and confess means you know you're
going to hear money and time
so what you and i got to do is figure
out how to make sure that they overcome
these
fears and stuff can you help me to do
that so you set the stage
by the way that you enter their world by
developing this thing called rapport and
finding out their needs and people love
to talk about themselves and if you
really are sincere which
i believe all of you are here are you
wouldn't be here if you really care and
you're really sincere and you're
developing rapport and you're like them
and you're finding their needs
then you're going to already set
somebody on a yes track aren't you
because they're going to want to agree
with you because you're like them you're
they know
you care about them if you then as
you're doing that and you begin to fill
their needs by asking things you are
committed to this right
they say yes i am committed you've got
to wait till they say yes you can go
you're committed to this right then just
go somewhere else
you have to have to set the stage right
from the beginning of getting
commitments from people getting rapport
and getting commitments
and then through the continuity of your
communication meaning continuously
coming back to the value and adding to
that
and through your own enthusiasm and
through your own personal congruence and
commitment
the rest is just assuming the sale
that's all it takes
i would say to those who are choosing uh
to tear down
right now rather than to build up that
that is the wrong choice and i would say
to them
let us build together that is the right
choice
throughout our country's history uh well
before we were acknowledged as a country
uh we were a home of hope to people from
around the world who came from
long distances away to uh
pursue a better life for themselves for
their families
and we continue to be that that the
beacon of light
for people from around the world we must
be that beacon of light for our
indigenous people in this country as
well
for too long that has not been the case
the people who came here to this country
uh before it was a country and since
didn't come here to destroy anything
they came here to build